Add docfx and documentation style guide (#103)
bonsai-rx/docs: articles/documentation-docfx.md

# Documentation With Docfx

Effective online documentation plays a crucial role in driving the adoption and usage of custom packages. For packages published by the Bonsai Foundation, we use [docfx](https://dotnet.github.io/docfx/index.html), a static site generator for .NET projects, to automatically generate and publish documentation online. As we have integrated and extended `docfx` to facilitate key Bonsai features, we encourage package developers to use `docfx` for consistency and support within the Bonsai Ecosystem. 

The following article will go into how to create a `docfx` website for your package. For documentation style guidelines, check out the [Documentation Style Guide](./documentation-style-guide.md).

> [!TIP]
> We recommend using a code editor with an integrated terminal like [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) to follow along with these instructions.

## Repository organization

> For effective long term maintenance of documentation across different repositories, package repositories should be organised according to this standardized folder structure before setting up `docfx`: 

Author: Just as a stylistic point for me to take note of the future, we are using American English? I will try to be more careful about it in the future (I have used both and mix it up sometimes)

> For effective long term maintenance of documentation across different repositories, package repositories should be organised according to this standardized folder structure before setting up `docfx`: 

Reviewer: Yes, for code I tend to be biased towards american english (which still dominates use in code naming conventions, etc). However I admit not being entirely consistent myself!

```powershell
git submodule add https://github.com/bonsai-rx/docfx-tools bonsai
```
If you cloned the repository and the `bonsai` folder does not contain any files:

```powershell
git submodule update --init
```

To update the submodule to the latest commit:
```powershell
git submodule update --remote
```

- `template/` - this custom CSS template patches in docfx-tools and adds a github link to the top right of the navigation bar. Download this folder from the [docfx-assets](https://github.com/bonsai-rx/docfx-assets) repository and amend the github link in `main.css` to your repository.

- `build.ps1` - this custom script exports Bonsai workflow images using `docfx-tools` and then calls the docfx build process. Download the file from the [docfx-assets](https://github.com/bonsai-rx/docfx-assets) repository and amend the line that specifies the package name and source location.

> - `logo.svg` and `favicon.ico` - for official Bonsai packages these can be downloaded from the [docfx-assets](https://github.com/bonsai-rx/docfx-assets) repository.

Author: I did start creating some python scripts to automate some of the docfx setup (see https://github.com/bonsai-rx/docfx-tools/pull/11 for a script to configure docfx.json) but now that you mention it, Bonsai.Templates might be a better place to have a documentation template. I guess this will also solve the issue of where to put the assets. Is there a GitHub repository for it to raise an issue so we can keep track of it?

The following article will go into detail on how to create a `docfx` website for your package. For documentation style guidelines, check out the [Documentation Style Guide](./documentation-style-guide.md).

> [!TIP]
> We recommend using a code editor with an integrated terminal like [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) to follow along with these instructions.

## Repository organization
For effective long term maintenance of documentation, package repositories should be organized according to the following standard folder structure before setting up `docfx`: 

```
.
├── .bonsai/                 # Local Bonsai Environment (see note below) 
├── .github/workflows/       # GitHub Actions Folder (see note below) 
│   └── docs.yml
├── docs/                    # Folder to setup docfx
└── src/
    └── Bonsai.PackageName/  # Project files here
... 
```

> - `.bonsai/` - A local Bonsai [environment](https://bonsai-rx.org/docs/articles/environments.html) is required to run the script that exports Bonsai workflow images. To create one, run the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.bonsai/` - A local Bonsai [environment](./environments.md) is required to run the script that exports Bonsai workflow images. To create one, run the following commands:
```

Noticing now this and a few other links could be replaced with local markdown references, useful when debugging local docs preview.

dotnet new bonsaienv
```

> - `.github/workflows/` - The `docfx` website is often automatically published to [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) using a [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions) workflow specified in the `docs.yml` file. Unfortunately these workflows tend to be very project specific and we do not yet have a standardized pipeline. For a minimal example and inspiration you can check [the workflow for this repository](https://github.com/bonsai-rx/docs/blob/main/.github/workflows/build.yml).

Reviewer: That is a good point, although unfortunately most of the other repos are also using deprecated actions which I would prefer not to use as a reference going forward. I was wondering maybe the best middle ground would be to upgrade one of the old repos to try out the upgraded pipeline.

I am reviewing https://github.com/bonsai-rx/zeromq/pull/22 and will try to upgrade everything to fit correctly. Once we are done we can point to that, does that sound good?

> - `.github/workflows/` - The `docfx` website is often automatically published to [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) using a [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions) workflow specified in the `docs.yml` file. Unfortunately these workflows tend to be very project specific and we do not yet have a standardized pipeline. For a minimal example and inspiration you can check [the workflow for this repository](https://github.com/bonsai-rx/docs/blob/main/.github/workflows/build.yml).

Author: Sounds good to me!

## Testing unpublished packages

> To write documentation for [new packages or releases](https://bonsai-rx.org/docs/articles/create-package.html) that have not yet been published to the community, it is good practice to start by writing test workflows in Visual Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To write documentation for [new packages or releases](./create-package.md) that have not yet been published to the community, it is good practice to start by writing test workflows in Visual Studio.
```

1) Install [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) (the community edition can be installed for free for open-source projects).
2) Install Bonsai VS Extensions. Assuming Bonsai is already installed, from the Windows Start Menu, search for the "Install Bonsai VS Extensions" shortcut and run it.
3) In Visual Studio, open `src/PackageName.sln` in the repository.

> 4) Press F5 to open the Bonsai editor with the new package added. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4) Press F5 to open the Bonsai editor with the new package added.
```

Remove whitespace at end of line

...
```

> ## Creating example workflows

Reviewer: Good point about the duplicate section. I think I would rather move everything to one of the sections then. Perhaps this one, since including example workflows feels really part of the core documentation infrastructure and not simply a style recommendation. Does that sound good?

Maybe I am confused about the distinction between "published" and "unpublished" packages. I was imagining that documentation would always be done targeting the source code of an existing package, and so in a way you always treat it as "unpublished" since you might be documenting a new release.

Although perhaps you were thinking of cookbook style or recipe examples and tutorials which might live outside of any package and where you just describe in detail how to use existing packages to achieve a specific goal? In that case I can see the difference, but then the entire way of setting up docfx might be different anyway and potentially deserve a separate guide? For now maybe we just explain how to document custom packages?

> ## Creating example workflows

Author: Hmm I am not sure how to answer this, but I think there are two separate issues to consider here:

1) Unpublished vs published packages

I guess the distinction for me was writing documentation for new releases like Bonsai.PulsePal vs old releases like BonVision. 

It was a pain point for me when i started working on the Bonsai.PulsePal documentation because I initially did not know how to test the package out (which at that time was not released yet). I took what I learnt from the 'Creating a Package' guide and decided to write up this short section in case it helped other documentation contributors who were not package developers. However I do think that maybe it is a little out of place here and package developers writing documentation for their own packages would already have this knowledge. In that case maybe this section is unnecessary?

2) Bonsai workflow examples

I think consolidating the instructions for how to generate Bonsai example workflows might be a good idea as I do think its part of the core documentation infrastruture. I guess I was just struggling with how to organise this content and chose to document the import of the docfx-tools submodule as part of the docfx infrastructure and the saving of the Bonsai examples workflows as part of the media/content recommendations.

In that case, I would probably make a new separate section in this article and title it "Bonsai workflow support" and pull in the content about the importing of the docfx tools submodule, where to save the Bonsai workflows, and how to use the 'build.ps1' script. That leaves the markdown instructions for how to include them in articles. It might still be a good idea to leave in the style guide, along with a link to this "Bonsai workflow support" section to ensure that people set up the infrastructure correctly. If thats ok with you, I could do a rewrite in a new commit (unless you want to organise it yourself differently?)

> ## Creating example workflows

Reviewer: Agreed, I have refactored both sections and moved the core infrastructure bit into the core docfx article.

To write documentation for [new packages or releases](./create-package.md) that have not yet been published to the community, it is good practice to start by writing test workflows in Visual Studio.

1. Install [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) (the community edition can be installed for free for open-source projects).
2. Install Bonsai VS Extensions. Assuming Bonsai is already installed, from the Windows Start Menu, search for the "Install Bonsai VS Extensions" shortcut and run it.
3. In Visual Studio, open `src/PackageName.sln` in the repository.
4. Press F5 to open the Bonsai editor with the new package added.

> 5. From here, you can make Bonsai workflows and save them to the `workflows` folder as examples.

Reviewer: Good point, I will rephrase.

> 5. From here, you can make Bonsai workflows and save them to the `workflows` folder as examples.

Reviewer: I ended up removing this bit.
